Development
===========

Developing for groundstation is made awkward by its design. I'm finding that
Vagrant works reasonably well, a Vagrantfile is distributed in HACKING/

Stations
========

The station is the core of groundstation. It represents a warpper around (For
now) a single git object database. the network stuff isn't directly related,
but the sole purpose of groundstations network stack is to interact with a
station object.

stationd
========

Stationd implements an event driven mainloop. This loop blocks on the sockets
(streaming and discovery), but allows allows events to be bound up for the
"next tick" in the form of iterators.

Because iterators will tend to queue up some outgoing network IO, for this
reason you won't be at the mercy of the event loop while waiting for IO to
happen, but should your sockets start blocking, you won't be allowed to write,
although even then your packets are written to a queue and not directly to the
socket, so this shouldn't be something you need to be concerned about.

object trees
------------

For obvious reasons, objects can't contain forward references without changing
their hashes and thereby making themselves useless. This makes walking the tree
forwards difficult, especially as it makes writing out indexes in any
meaningful way impossible without enforcing cross repository locking. My
current tentative solution to this is as follows:

### Indexing

Given an object `a`, with forward ancestors `b`, `c`, and `d` such that the
tree looks like:

```
a--b--c
     \
      d
```

1. An indexing process will start at one of the foremost nodes (at time of
writing, this should occur when new objects are written with ancestors)

2. This process should enumerate its ancestors, writing them out to a tempfile
in the repository (tentatively in `/tmp/$$/...` for dotlocking) one hash per
line, in reverse order, ie most recent commit first.

3. Upon completion, this process will use an atomic `mv`/`rename`
implementation to create a file in `$objdb/rindex` with the name of the object
whose history has been enumerated.

4. This process may at its option then unlink the files named by any ancestors
named in the file just written.

### Edgecases

#### TODO

According to the current indexing spec, for the tree given by:

```
a--b--c--f--g
     \    /
      d--e
```

Once the rindex is resolved, a search for `f` will return `g`, which in turn
includes `d` and `e` which have nothing to do with `f`. Notation for branching
and resolution will need to be created.

### Writing data out

Updates to refs that are recieved from a peer should be accompanied by a valid
signature. All objects should be accepted (unless the signature is actually
invalid, not just untrusted), but only objects that are signed by a trusted
party should be included into the rindex for consideration for rendering.

### Traversing

To find the forward ancestors of a given object, simply grep over
`$odjdb/reindex` for the commit has in question. the filenames represent the
tips, any intermediate nodes are contained inside the file.

object structure
----------------

### Construction

Objects are represented by tree structures, beginning with a root node (Which
will be implementation specific, but for reasons relating to user sanity you
should create a root node with the bare amount of uniquely identifying data
possible, to maximise the chances that two people doing the same thing gets the
same hash if you're pulling data in) and a series of transformative updates on
these root objects.

### Transformations

A transformation is represented as an ObjectEvent which will contain an event
specific payload which should be treated as a mask for the underlying event.

Transformations can (and will) have multiple parents, but it should be noted
that noop merges will not be possible, merges will be created when NEW events
are created, as all visible tips will be direct ancestors to the new
ObjectEvent.

### Presentation

Presenting data will not be done with a single node, but rather with the tips
of all divergent branches from a root object.

Tie resolution is currently undefined.

updating refs
-------------

Unlike in git, a ref doesn't point ot a single commit, instead it points to all
the valid tips of a commit.

As such, the process for updating a ref should be:

1. Create a directory for the ref in `grefs/$refname`, respecting slashes as
though they were native to the fs.

2. Inside this ref directory, create a file for each tip that now exists on the
ref. This file should contain the signature for the update to that ref (this is
a TODO)

3. Any previously existing files should be unlinked, AFTER each child ref is
written.


Therefore, a state transformation for an update might look like:

```
grefs/richo@psych0tik.net:foobar/baz ::

a--b--c--d
       \
         e
```

Currently, the `grefs` directory contains two files, `d` and `e`, each
theoretically with a valid signature.


```
grefs/richo@psych0tik.net:foobar/baz ::

a--b--c--d--f
       \   /
         e
```

After this, `f` is written out with a new signature, and then `d` and `e` are
unlinked.

### Misc

Important reminder for the forgetful:

protobuf `string`s come out as python `unicode`s.
protobuf `bytes`s come out as python `string`s (or bytearrays in python3)
